Device Authorization Grant (#2397)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/device-authorization-grant/main/index.md

## Before you begin

This guide assumes that you:

* Have an Okta Developer Edition organiztion. Don't have one? [Create one for free](https://developer.okta.com/signup).
* Have the Native SSO feature enabled for your org. From the left navigation pane in the Admin Console, go to **Settings** > **Features**, locate the Native SSO slider, and slide to enable.

## Configure an application to use the Device Authorization Grant

To create a Native OpenID Connect application and then configure it to support Device Authorization:

1. In the left navigation pane of the Admin Console, go to **Applications** > **Applications**.
1. Click **Create App Integration**.
1. On the Create a new app integration page, select **OIDC - OpenID Connect** as the **Sign-in method**, and then pick **Native Application**.
1. On your native application page, fill in the application settings. Ensure that you select **Device Authorization** as the allowed **Grant type** in the General Settings.

> **Note:** Device Authorization is only supported for use with a native application.

## Configure the Authorization Server policy rule for Device Authorization

> Both Org and Custom Authorization Servers support Device Authorization. Ensure that Device Authorization is enabled at the policy rule level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both Org and Custom Authorization Servers support Device Authorization. Ensure that Device Authorization is enabled at the policy rule level if you're planning to use a Custom Authorization Server. Note that if you're planning to use the Org Authorization Server, you can skip this step.
```

To check that Device Authorization is enabled:

1. In the left navigation pane of the Admin Console, go to **Security** > **API** and select the "default" Custom Authorization Server. Note that the examples in this guide use the "default" Custom Authorization Server.

> 1. On the **Access Policies** tab, select the access policy that you want to configure Device Authorization for.

Reviewer: Is this an ordered list? If so, why are all items starting with `1. `?

1. Click the pencil icon for the Default Policy Rule.
1. In the Edit Rule dialog box, select **Device Authorization** for the grant type and click **Update Rule**.

## Configure the smart device

### Request the device verification code

The smart device first needs to call the `/device/authorize` endpoint to obtain the unique verification code.

**Request example**

```bash
  curl --request POST \
  --url https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/device/authorize \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
  --data-urlencode 'client_id={clientId}' \
  --data-urlencode 'scope=openid profile offline_access'
```

> The POST request passes the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The device authorization request passes the following parameters:
```

* `scope` to specify which access privileges are being requested for access tokens. See [Scopes](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/oidc/#scopes) for a list of supported scopes.

**Response example**

```json
{
   "device_code": "f5ec0430-c2fe-4a93-912d-08631f1effed",
   "user_code": "HMBSRJRC",
   "verification_uri": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/activate",
   "expires_in": 600,
   "interval": 5
}
```

The properties in the response are:

* `device_code`: The long string that the device uses to exchange for an access token.
* `user_code`: The text that you enter at the URL that is listed as the value for `verification_uri`.
* `verification_uri`: The URL that the user needs to enter into their phone to start signing in.
* `expires_in`: The number of seconds that this set of values is valid. After the device code and user code expire, the user has to start the device verification process over.
* `interval`: The number of seconds that the device should wait between polling to see if the user has finished signing in.

The `user_code` and `verification_uri` must appear on the smart device for the user.

> > **Note:** A QR code compliant `verification_uri` is coming soon.

Reviewer: I'll suggest a slight re-phrasing;
```suggestion
> **Note:** A QR code compliant verification uri is coming soon.
```
Reason is that the new QR compliant verification uri will be called `verification_uri_complete` and we'll still keep the existing `verification_uri` the way it is described in this doc, so it'll be confusing to mention that property specifically in this note.

#### Example of the display on the smart device

![Verification on the smart device:](/img/DeviceAuthGrant2.png)

### Request for user access, ID, and refresh tokens

To retrieve tokens for the user, the smart device needs to make a request to the `/token` endpoint.

**Request example**

```bash
  curl --location --request POST 'https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/token' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
  --data-urlencode 'client_id={clientId}' \
  --data-urlencode 'grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code' \
  --data-urlencode 'device_code={deviceCode)' \
```

> Note the paramters that are being passed:

Reviewer: Should we mention the `client_id` parameter here?

Author: In an earlier review with Susan, I think she mentioned just grant type and device code since client ID is elsewhere.

* `grant_type`: Identifies the mechanism that Okta uses to retrieve the tokens. Value: `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code`
* `device_code`: The string that the device uses to exchange for an access token. Use the `device_code` value from the device verification response.

**Response example**

Okta returns a pending response if the user doesn't complete the authentication.

```json
  {
     "error": "authorization_pending",
     "error_description": "The device authorization is pending. Please try again later."
  }
```

> After the user completes the authentication process by visiting the `/activate` URL and follow the instructions on their device to get an activation code, the token is returned in the response from the `/token` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the user visits the `/activate` URL and follow the instructions on their device to input the activation code and completes the authentication and authorization, the tokens are returned in the response from the `/token` endpoint.
```
Additionally, we've not called the `user_code` an `activation code` before now. Can we stick to one terminology?

```json
 {
   "token_type": "Bearer",
   "expires_in": 3600,
   "access_token":

>       "eyJraWQ...JQuDJh8g",

Reviewer: why is this value on its own line? It should be on the same line, like `refresh_token` has its value.

Author: It showed up that way in the response I copied. I fixed it.

   "scope": "offline_access openid profile",
   "refresh_token": "zcLdr1FBXwtI9ej98VVVwtjDd-SmaoL06qr_UcY2tNA",
   "id_token": "eyJraWQ...WI6KR0aQ"
 }
```

If you need a refresh token, ensure that you've initially requested the `offline_access` scope through the `/device/authorize` endpoint. To renew access tokens in the future, you can use the refresh token.

> **Note:** The unique user code is valid for 10 minutes. The user needs to use this code and complete the authentication process within that time. If not, the unique user code expires and the device can request a new user code by using the `/device/authorize` endpoint.

## Revoke the token

To revoke the tokens, the smart device must make a request to the `/revoke` endpoint.

> ```bash

Reviewer: Do we not show any info about the response when the response does not contain a body?

Reviewer 2: @larsjohansen-okta - not usually - but we could at least say the response returns a 200 OK?

Reviewer: We should be consistent with what we do here: https://github.com/okta/okta-developer-docs/pull/2398#discussion_r682279529

Author: Fixed.

---
title: Configure Device Authorization Grant Flow
excerpt: Learn how to use a secondary device to complete sign-in to applications
layout: Guides
---

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" /><br>

## Overview

> The Device Authorization feature is an OAuth 2.0 grant type. It allows users to sign in to input constrained devices, such as smart TVs, digital picture frames, and printers, as well as devices with no browser. Device Authorization enables you to use a secondary device, such as a laptop or mobile phone, to complete sign-in to applications that run on such devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Device Authorization feature is an OAuth 2.0 grant type. It allows users to sign in to input-constrained devices, such as smart TVs, digital picture frames, and printers, as well as devices with no browser. Device Authorization enables you to use a secondary device, such as a laptop or mobile phone, to complete sign-in to applications that run on such devices.
```

The Device Authorization feature is available for both Okta Classic and Okta Identity Engine orgs.

If you need help or have an issue, post a question on the [Okta Developer Forum](https://devforum.okta.com).

## Before you begin

This guide assumes that you:

* Have an Okta Developer Edition organiztion. Don't have one? [Create one for free](https://developer.okta.com/signup).

> * Have the Native SSO feature enabled for your org. From the left navigation pane in the Admin Console, go to **Settings** > **Features**, locate the Native SSO slider, and slide to enable.

Reviewer: This is wrong, it's needs the Device Authorization Grant, not Native SSO

Author: Fixed

> * Have the Device Authorization Grant feature enabled for your org. From the left navigation pane in the Admin Console, go to **Settings** > **Features**, locate the Device Authorization Grant slider, and slide to enable.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
* Have the Device Authorization feature enabled for your org. From the left navigation pane in the Admin Console, go to **Settings** > **Features**, locate the Device Authorization Grant slider, and slide to enable.
```

To check that Device Authorization is enabled:

1. In the left navigation pane of the Admin Console, go to **Security** > **API** and select the "default" Custom Authorization Server. Note that the examples in this guide use the "default" Custom Authorization Server.
1. On the **Access Policies** tab, select the access policy that you want to configure Device Authorization for.
1. Click the pencil icon for the Default Policy Rule.
1. In the Edit Rule dialog box, select **Device Authorization** for the grant type and click **Update Rule**.

## Configure the smart device

### Request the device verification code

The smart device first needs to call the `/device/authorize` endpoint to obtain the unique verification code.

**Example request**

```bash
  curl --request POST \
  --url https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/device/authorize \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
  --data-urlencode 'client_id={clientId}' \
  --data-urlencode 'scope=openid profile offline_access'
```

The device authorization request passes the following parameters:

> * `client_id`, which matches the Client ID of the OAuth 2.0 application that you created

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `client_id` &mdash; matches the Client ID of the OAuth 2.0 application that you created
```

> * `scope` to specify which access privileges are being requested for access tokens. See [Scopes](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/oidc/#scopes) for a list of supported scopes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `scope` &mdash; specifies which access privileges are being requested for access tokens. See [Scopes](/docs/reference/api/oidc/#scopes) for a list of supported scopes.
```

**Example response**

```json
{
   "device_code": "f5ec0430-c2fe-4a93-912d-08631f1effed",
   "user_code": "HMBSRJRC",
   "verification_uri": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/activate",
   "expires_in": 600,
   "interval": 5
}
```

The properties in the response are:

* `device_code`: The long string that the device uses to exchange for an access token.
* `user_code`: The text that you enter at the URL that is listed as the value for `verification_uri`.
* `verification_uri`: The URL that the user needs to enter into their phone to start signing in.
* `expires_in`: The number of seconds that this set of values is valid. After the device code and user code expire, the user has to start the device verification process over.
* `interval`: The number of seconds that the device should wait between polling to see if the user has finished signing in.

The `user_code` and `verification_uri` must appear on the smart device for the user.

> > **Note:** A QR code compliant verification uri is coming soon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** A QR code compliant verification URI is coming soon.
```

#### Example of the display on the smart device

![Verification on the smart device:](/img/DeviceAuthGrant2.png)

> ### Request for user access, ID, and refresh tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Request access, ID, and refresh tokens
```

  --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
  --data-urlencode 'client_id={clientId}' \
  --data-urlencode 'grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code' \
  --data-urlencode 'device_code={deviceCode)' \
```

Note the paramters that are being passed:

* `grant_type`: Identifies the mechanism that Okta uses to retrieve the tokens. Value: `urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:device_code`
* `device_code`: The string that the device uses to exchange for an access token. Use the `device_code` value from the device verification response.

**Example response**

Okta returns a pending response if the user doesn't complete the authentication.

```json
  {
     "error": "authorization_pending",
     "error_description": "The device authorization is pending. Please try again later."
  }
```

After the user visits the `/activate` URL, follows the instructions on their device to input the activation code, and completes the authentication and authorization, the tokens are returned in the response from the `/token` endpoint.

```json
 {
   "token_type": "Bearer",
   "expires_in": 3600,
   "access_token": "eyJraWQ...JQuDJh8g",

>    "scope": "offline_access openid profile",

Reviewer: nit: let's order these in the same order as the request to make it easier to correlate.

```suggestion
   "scope": "openid profile offline_access",
```

   "refresh_token": "zcLdr1FBXwtI9ej98VVVwtjDd-SmaoL06qr_UcY2tNA",
   "id_token": "eyJraWQ...WI6KR0aQ"
 }
```

If you need a refresh token, ensure that you've initially requested the `offline_access` scope through the `/device/authorize` endpoint. To renew access tokens in the future, you can use the refresh token.

> **Note:** The unique user code is valid for 10 minutes. The user needs to use this code and complete the authentication process within that time. If not, the unique user code expires and the device can request a new user code by using the `/device/authorize` endpoint.

## Revoke the token

To revoke the tokens, the smart device must make a request to the `/revoke` endpoint.

```bash
  curl --location --request POST 'https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/revoke' \
  --header 'Accept: application/json' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \

>   --data-urlencode 'token=refresh_token' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --data-urlencode 'token={refreshToken}' \
```

  --data-urlencode 'token_type_hint=refresh_token' \

>   --data-urlencode 'client_id={client_id}' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --data-urlencode 'client_id={clientId}' \
```

---

> title: Configure Device Authorization

Reviewer 3: title: Configure Device Authorization Grant Flow

Author: Fixed

excerpt: Learn how to use a secondary device to complete sign-in to applications
layout: Guides
---

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" /><br>

## Overview

> The Device Authorization feature is an OAuth 2.0 grant type. It allows users to sign in to input constrained devices, such as smart TVs, digital picture frames, and printers, as well as devices with no browser. The Device Authorization grant type enables you to use a secondary device, such as a laptop or mobile phone, to complete sign-in to applications that run on such devices.

Author: Made it consistently "Device Authorization".

> The Device Authorization feature is available for both Okta Classic and Okta Identity Engine orgs.

Author: The official name is `Okta Classic`.

* Have the Native SSO feature enabled for your org. From the left navigation pane in the Admin Console, go to **Settings** > **Features**, locate the Native SSO slider, and slide to enable.

## Configure an application to use the Device Authorization Grant

To create a Native OpenID Connect application and then configure it to support the Device Authorization Grant type:

1. In the left navigation pane of the Admin Console, go to **Applications** > **Applications**.
1. Click **Create App Integration**.
1. On the Create a new app integration page, select **OIDC - OpenID Connect** as the **Sign-in method**, and then pick **Native Application**.
1. On your native application page, fill in the application settings. Ensure that you select **Device Authorization** as the allowed **Grant type** in the General Settings.

> **Note:** The Device Authorization Grant is only supported for use with a native application.

## Configure the Authorization Server policy rule for the Device Authorization grant type

Both Org and Custom Authorization Servers support the Device Authorization grant type. Ensure that the Device Authorization grant type is enabled at the policy rule level.

> To check that the Device Authorization grant type is enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check that the Device Authorization grant type is enabled for a Custom Authorization Server:
```

1. Click the pencil icon for the Default Policy Rule.
1. In the Edit Rule dialog box, select **Device Authorization** for the grant type and click **Update Rule**.

## Configure the smart device

### Request the device verification code

The smart device first needs to call the `/device/authorize` endpoint to obtain the unique verification code.

**Request example**

```bash
  curl --request POST \
  --url https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/device/authorize \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
  --data-urlencode 'client_id={clientId}' \
  --data-urlencode 'scope=openid profile offline_access'
```

The POST request passes the following parameters:

* `client_id`, which matches the Client ID of the OAuth 2.0 application that you created
* `scope` to specify which access privileges are being requested for access tokens. See [Scopes](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api/oidc/#scopes) for a list of supported scopes.

**Response example**

```json
{
   "device_code": "f5ec0430-c2fe-4a93-912d-08631f1effed",
   "user_code": "HMBSRJRC",

>    "verification_uri": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/activate",

Reviewer: Are we only parameterizing the org domain but nothing else in the response like the device code and user code?

Author: In this example, yes, it's OK as is, as per the style guide and consistent use in the other guides.

   "expires_in": 600,
   "interval": 5
}
```

The properties in the response are:

* `device_code`: The long string that the device uses to exchange for an access token.
* `user_code`: The text that you enter at the URL that is listed as the value for `verification_uri`.
* `verification_uri`: The URL that the user needs to enter into their phone to start signing in.
* `expires_in`: The number of seconds that this set of values is valid. After the device code and user code expire, the user has to start the device verification process over.
* `interval`: The number of seconds that the device should wait between polling to see if the user has finished signing in.

The `user_code` and `verification_uri` must appear on the smart device for the user.

> **Note:** A QR code compliant `verification_uri` is coming soon.

#### Example of the display on the smart device

> ![Verification on the smart device:](/img/DeviceAuthGrant2.png)

Reviewer: Can you show how this looks with a screenshot?

Author: Sent Lars a screenshot via Slack.

### Request for user access, ID, and refresh tokens

To retrieve tokens for the user, the smart device needs to make a request to the `/token` endpoint.

**Request example**

```bash
  curl --location --request POST 'https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/token' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
  --data-urlencode 'client_id={clientId}' \

>   --data-urlencode 'scope=openid profile' \

Reviewer: It's confusing to request scopes in this request as you already did in `/device/authorize` request. I suggest to remove this line.

Author: Removed.

```json
 {
   "token_type": "Bearer",
   "expires_in": 3600,
   "access_token":
      "eyJraWQ...JQuDJh8g",
   "scope": "offline_access openid profile",
   "refresh_token": "zcLdr1FBXwtI9ej98VVVwtjDd-SmaoL06qr_UcY2tNA",
   "id_token": "eyJraWQ...WI6KR0aQ"
 }
```

If you need a refresh token, ensure that you've initially requested the `offline_access` scope through the `/device/authorize` endpoint. To renew access tokens in the future, you can use the refresh token.

> **Note:** The unique user code is valid for 10 minutes. The user needs to use this code and complete the authentication process within that time. If not, the unique user code expires and the device can request a new user code by using the `/device/authorize` endpoint.

## Revoke the token

To revoke the tokens, the smart device must make a request to the `/revoke` endpoint.

```bash
  curl --location --request POST 'https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/revoke' \
  --header 'Accept: application/json' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \

>   ``--data-urlencode ``'token=refresh_token' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --data-urlencode 'token=refresh_token' \
```

  --data-urlencode 'token_type_hint=refresh_token' \
  --data-urlencode 'client_id={client_id}' \
```

> ## Request Single Logout

Reviewer 3: Just say Request Logout

Reviewer: This entire section is not for Device Flow, it's meant to be part of the Native SSO guide.

Author: Moved this section to Native SSO.

When the user signs out of an application, the application sends a `/logout` request to the Okta Authorizataion Server, which revokes the device secret.

```bash

>   url --location --request GET `https://${yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default/v1/logout` \

Reviewer 3: `C` is missing in curl

Author: Fixed.

  --data-urlencode `id_token_hint={id_token}` \

>   --data-urlencode `device_secret={device_secret}` \

Reviewer 3: Why is there a `device secret` in Device authorization grant? CC @larsjohansen-okta

Author: Section moved to Native SSO

  --data-urlencode `post_logout_redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fclient1.example.${yourOktaDomain}%2Flogout` \
  --data-urlencode `state=2OwvFrEMTJg` \
```

> The Authorization Server invalidates the ID token and refresh token that are issued for the `sid` and `device_secret`. If the invalidated refresh token is used to renew tokens, the request fails. The existing access token isn't revoked and is valid until it naturally expires.

Reviewer 3: This does not look right. Where does `sid` and `device_secret` come for Device authorization grant?

Author: Moved to Native SSO
